[[ auto-translated by gemma2:27b ]]
(Woman, sobbing)
You were surely sleeping.
I didn't want to wake you, but something terrible happened ...
Oh God, what happened?
I'm sorry, I'm coming now.
* Sigh *
* Soft piano music *
(The night
doesn't make life any better.)
(Only darker,
and that's good for our lot.)
(Because in the dark, things happen
that people want to hide.)
* She shivers. *
My ...
My name ...
My Na...
I am ...
My name is Emilia Dobek.
You can call me Emilia.
- Hm. Merci.
Excuse me,
I really didn't want to wake you.
You already said that
on the phone.
And I don't want to bother you either.
- And yet here you are.
Just make it
short and painless.
It will be neither short nor painless.
* Title music from "Philip Maloney" *
(Announcer) The hair-raising
cases of Philip Maloney.
Today: sleeping dogs.
With subtitles by SWISS TXT Your
wallet is bleeding. I know this problem.
That's not mine.
I'm a sleepwalker.
For a long time. It's bad.
Are you sleepwalking now too?
No, then I wouldn't know,
that I'm sleepwalking.
Could you
search the wallet?
The only bloody thing,
that I touch,
is a good piece of meat.
* Tense sounds *
Thomas Schrämli.
Do you know a Thomas Schrämli?
I am a sleepwalker.
And I'm tired.
This is the first time,
that something like this has happened.
Normally
I don't wake up at all,
but before that I suddenly stood
in the city park. With this in my hand.
And then came the police.
That's why I ran away.
Yes, I have this flight instinct
with the police too.
You have to help me.
What if I hurt someone ...
What is, if she killed someone?
Can you remember anything?
Please, you have to find out,
whether Mr. Schrämli is still alive.
Otherwise I can never sleep again.
- I'll take a look at it.
Lock me in here,
until you come back?
I can't go home, then
I'll fall asleep again
and it starts all over again.
I lost everything through sleepwalking,
even my dog.
Unfortunately, I can't offer you
accommodation for free.
As an advance.
(It was a mystery to me,
what was wrong with this Mrs. Dobek.)
(Perhaps she
is just one of those people,
who go through life
with the wish
to remember as little as possible.)
Don't be ridiculous.
* Mysterious sounds *
Now look here, from mountain and valley,
Maloney.
I was wondering
when you would show up.
It seems my client
hit the mark after all.
Also, we have ...
- ... found a body.
Yes.
A man, 30 years old,
named Thomas Schrämli.
You take away any joy in life.
An acquaintance of yours?
- Sort of.
Could you take a look at this?
- Yes, Merci.
For once we were here before
you contaminated the crime scene.
Nasty business, Maloney.
Shot from behind with a blunt object.
Uhm, beaten to death. No valuables.
The perpetrator is at large.
- How did you get here?
We were called because of an argument.
He obviously lost the argument.
Who called?
- Anonymously.
Can't you trace it back?
That's not as easy as on TV.
And it takes longer.
- You're no better off with me.
Just longer.
- Ah, good.
The victim's camper is free to go.
Want me to take you with me?
I see everything a little differently.
Yes, blurred and with 2.0 per mille.
- If it helps.
It doesn't help if it doesn't hurt.
Pardon.
(Sighing) Maloney...
Aha.
Well, someone has
been busy taking pictures.
*Mysterious sounds*
Definitely a creep,
maybe even a pervert.
Or a private detective.
Who could it be?
What are you doing there?
The human nose can
identify over 10'000 smells.
Even incompetent policemen?
It could help us,
solve a crime.
Actually
sniffing is my profession.
You are only
figuratively sniffers.
And you are only
figuratively policemen.
Quiet! I have to activate my nose.
* Loud sniffing *
He's crazy.
Mr. Maloney,
good that you are back.
* Tense sounds *
Did you ever have a cat?
No.
Didn't you paint it?
- Yes, but...- No!
Doesn't it say "PM"
for Philip Maloney?
It says:
"Don't touch my things."
Excuse me,
I just wanted to help.
Are you going to put all of them on?
You found Schrämli.
And how is he doing?
According to the circumstances, bad.
<br>He is dead.
<br>Dead?
<br>Did I kill him?
he certainly didn't die of old age.
<br>Can you remember
nothing?<br>- It wasn't me.
<br>Are you sure?<br>- I am no murderer.
<br>Who did it?<br>- Schrämli.
<br>And who is that?
<br>The man or the dog?<br>- Both.
<br>Do you meet strangers in your sleep?
<br>I don't know the
man,<br>I've never seen him.
<br>The dead man
photographed me, <br>but why?
<br>Are you perhaps
famous?<br>- Not that I know of.
<br>You don't seem to
know<br>much about yourself.
<br>Find out.
<br>And close up here again!
(I wasn't sure, if I should warn
the world about Mrs. Dobek
or Mrs. Dobek must
protect from the world.)
(Perhaps both.)
(But first I wanted to find out
more about this sleepwalking.)
The best sleep
researcher in town.
And how do you sleep?
Mostly horizontally
under my desk.
Excessive caffeine or alcohol consumption?
- If possible, yes.
How do you feel each time
before falling asleep?- Tired.
Please take the questions seriously.
The reason for my sleep
disorder is a woman.- Interesting.
We met at a self-help group for people
with sleep problems .- Very interesting.
Is it possible, that one could hurt someone as a sleepwalker?
- Very, very interesting.
You know, there is a lack of
courage, to research sleepwalking.
It is still a black box.
We have discovered impulses in the pineal gland
that indirectly interact with the thalamo- cortical system.
Thal...amok...ortical system?
- For a long time, one assumed ...
... a dissociation ...
- Please again for people,
those who haven't swallowed a Nobel Prize?
Gladly.
For 25 years I have been researching
the secrets
of sleep and somnambulism and have developed
a
revolutionary theory: In our sleep
we complete our self.
What is hidden in the midbrain
awakens.
All our suppressed desires
are to be found there.
And what if those who yearn
kill someone?
That's
not a scientific question.
It doesn't matter. I'm interested.
You have no vision.
Think of the potential!
Multiple realities, freed from
the shackles of the controlling self.
Well, I can do without these thoughts.
You understand it anyway.
You don't want to think,
hear or feel certain things.
and banish them
into the subconscious.
There is a splitting off, from which a
sleep-self with a parallel identity develops.
My study will radically change the
entire understanding of the human psyche.
The multiple self enables
access to untapped resources.
For the job market, relationship
models, self-realization, freedom!
And is it possible to find out, what a sleepwalker does while sleepwalking?
- Finally a good question.
Hopefully I'll finally
get a good answer too.
My research investigates how the sleep-self
forms memories and is thus equal to our awake self.
Do you see now the
scope of this discovery?
* Lascivious Whistling *
Does this also belong to your research?
We do not judge
the activities of the sleepwalkers.
We research and accompany.
Fascinating, isn't it?
(The sleep-I's
seem to be doing strange things.)
(That's why it was time,
to get to know the sleep-I
of my client.)
* Drowsy sounds *
Who wants to come out with me? Who?
Mrs. Dobek?
You found a wallet last night
Could you maybe tell me a little more about it?
Mrs. Dobek?
Are you a pervert?
Get out of here, right now!
Come on, Wuffgang, let's go!
* Mysterious sounds *
Come on.
*Merry whistling*
(In this park
the sleepwalkers say goodnight
and the dog walkers.)
Are you bored?
- Not anymore.
I think it's going to get cold.
Or maybe even winter.
Yes, winter is coming.
So, uhm, soon.
So, not so soon either.
Also, he was just here.
I've been thinking about
what you said last night.
And I think, if I could,
then I would go to Sweden.
It's always dark there in the winter.
Then I could just sit
outside with you and ...
What kind of person are you?
- One who loves you very much.
You scoundrel.
* Barking *
Mrs. Dobek.
- Hey wait, you sneak!
Mrs. Dobek!
* Maloney coughs. *
Mr. Maloney?
What did I do?
This can't be true,
what did I do?
I am a murderer ...
I am a murderer.
What was that just now?
I would like to know
that from you.
I thought I was helping Emilia.
Hug is my name, nice to meet you.
- Nice.
And this is Chnurrli.
- Yeah, yeah.
Does Emilia sleepwalk?
- Exactly.
Always?
- Only at night.
But ...
I thought that ...
That can't be true because ...
Finish the sentence.
Emilia showed up here
sometime ... with her dog.
We have
a very special relationship.
With her, life came into my ...
life.
- Exactly.
She's always out at night, and so am I.
You need to know, Chnurrli
has a daytime allergy.
Chnurrli has what?
- A daytime allergy.
Does the dog know anything about his luck?
I have an allergy to people
who only tell half the truth.
I don't have to tell you anything.
Did you meet with Mrs. Dobek last night too?
- Why?
Because there was a dead man nearby.
A dead man? I have
nothing to do with that.
And the gentleman, before he
died, took a few pictures of you.
Didn't you notice that?
- No.
Come Chnurrli, let's go!
I am against violence. Mostly.
Actually always.
Come Wuffgang, let's go.
* Whining
* Come.
And because my inner Maloney had an
idea where my client might be, I went there,
where every dream
becomes a nightmare.
Mysterious music
drowns out the conversation. *
I'll be right back.
I don't believe it, Maloney!
Mrs. Dobek confessed to the murder.
She even had the victim's wallet
with her.
She is innocent, this Mrs. Dobek,
the woman sitting here is innocent.
Is there another Mrs. Dobek?
One Mrs. Dobek is awake, and
the other is a sleepwalker.
That's probably why her
sleeping self Schrämli was killed.
So it was her after all. In her sleep.
- The other one. Not this one.
Nonsense. There was a murder,
and someone has to go in the box!
You're making a mistake.
- No, I'm not.
The case is clear-cut:
Mrs. Dobek murdered Schrämli.
Why then did Schrämli
photograph Mrs. Dobek?
Why, why, why, why?
People
sometimes do strange things.
Look at yourself.
* He laughs. *
* Mysterious sounds *
(While my waking self tried,
to find the bottom and the top
in this case,
my sleeping self led me
directly back to Schrämli
and his trailer.)
(Mr. Schrämli
thus photographed not only my client,
but all sorts of
sleepwalkers.)
(And he was particularly interested
in the gentleman,
who in his sleep
likes to lose his clothes.)
(Man) Night 12. City park.
Good evening, Mr. Baumgartner,
are you sleepwalking naked again?
(Baumgartner) What? Well I ...
But you know me.
Thomas Schrämli.
I am an assistant in the sleep laboratory.
We talk together,
when you sleepwalk.
What do you want from me?
- No memory. Never. With none.
Schrämli questioned your theory.
and thus put his research in jeopardy.
Whoever thinks big, will be questioned.
He worked here until you
dismissed him without notice.
Schrämli was afraid of the
oppressed, the unconscious.
He despised sleepwalkers.
I, on the other hand, love sleepwalkers.
After all, he then
pursued his own research.
Night 13. City Park.
Mr. Baumgartner, we have
already spoken last night.
Go away!
- I want answers.
Do you remember yesterday?
- That's enough!
He was obsessed with
Baumgartner. Do you know why?
Because he could prove,
that your theory is wrong.
Did you kill him for that?
I know, that my
research is a success.
And I can prove it to you, come.
These recordings prove, that Mr.
Baumgartner can remember
previous sleep phases.
He sleepwalks and trains
his memory in the process.
For a wrong answer he
gets a small electric shock.
See: several nights later.
Memories have formed.
Baumgartner already knows considerably
more about the correct sequence.
He learns and develops
further. In his sleep!
Mr.
Baumgartner has a second identity.
With feelings, memories - a second life!
Thomas Schrämli was
afraid of this second life.
(I asked myself, whether the clever
professor hid a murder behind all the words.)
(Or whether clever
talk simply remains talk.)
* Whistling *
That seems somehow familiar to me.
Mr. Baumgartner?
Yes? Do we know each other?
- Not directly.
I'm from the association
Anonymous Somnambulists.
We take care of the well-being of
all sleepwalking
people and animals.
Are there sleepwalking animals?
There's everything possible that
sleepwalks: birds, dogs, murderers.
Murderers?
A Mr. Schrämli followed
some of our members.
Do you know him perhaps?
- No.
I'm sorry,
I can't help you further.
I have a lot to do.
Now please let me through.
* Discomforting sounds *
(I had this feeling,
that the model subject Baumgartner
is the key to everything.)
(It is time, to conduct my own
experiment.)
(And to beat myself another night
silly.)
* Whistling *
* Carefree music, whistling *
Baumgartner.
It was you!
You slipped Schrämli's wallet
from him.
He... What?
And you killed him.
I saw it.
You are sleepwalking, aren't you?
Why do you remember?
That's impossible.
You can also remember.
Or are you maybe a cheater?
I...
Just wait, I'll finish you!
Leave me alone, or
you'll be dead soon too.
Don't move! Drop your
hands, rock in the air!
Immediately!
Wonderful performance
Mrs Dobek, bravo!
Thank you very much, Mr Maloney.
Don't you sleepwalk at all?
- Not now. I used to.
And you never
sleepwalk, is that right?
That's a fraud!
- What, Maloney?
He's not a sleepwalker at all?
- The gentleman pretended.
You are under arrest, for
disturbing the public peace.
Yes, and especially for murder!
- What, that too?
Mr Schrämli wanted to
disprove the professor's
theory and thereby
discovered our fake sleepwalker.
Baumgartner is
actually a sleepwalker.
He likes to undress in front of others.
- That's forbidden!
I had to kill Schrämli.
While sleepwalking
I could just be myself.
And Mrs. Dobek was simply
in the wrong place at the right time.
A sleepwalker who can't remember anything, perfect plan.
Hey, hey, hey,
Violence is not the solution!
You're coming with me, Mr. Baumberger.
- Gartner, not Berger.
One more word and I'll shoot you
on the spot while escaping.
Either on the run
or on the spot.
You are a know-it-all?
Now there's peace! Come along.
It's just enough
for the late broadcast of "Meteo".
Look.
You forgot this.
* Barking *
I would like to introduce
you to someone.
This is Mr. Hug.
Hello.
Good evening.
*Soft music*
Well, I think I'll be going.
It's getting late.
*Whining*
Mr. Hug.
Goodbye.
Bye, Chnurrli.
(With the pain
I couldn't help.)
(He had to
suppress it alone.)
(Maybe it really was just
a dog's love.)
(Fortunately, there are no
suppressed emotions in a Maloney.)
(Or longings.)
(That's how it goes.)
Subtitle: Metatext on
behalf of SWISS TXT - 2024